The surface of the SARS-CoV-2 virus is studded with Spike proteins, shown in teal,
membrane proteins, shown in yellow, and envelope proteins, shown in red.
In cross-section the viral RNA genome in orange
is wrapped around nucleocapsid proteins shown in grey.
An individual can be infected with SARS-CoV-2 after inhaling airborne viral particles.
These viruses can then travel into the airways, where they may encounter cells
of the respiratory epithelium in the trachea and lungs.
The Spike protein recognizes a specific protein called ACE2,
which is shown here in purple on the cell surface.
The Spike protein, which is normally very dynamic and able to undergo opening,
closing, and bending movements, is locked into an open position after binding to ACE2.
Another protein on the cell surface called TMPRSS2 and shown in orange,
can then cut the Spike protein in a specific location.
The cut segments of the Spike protein fall away,
exposing a portion of the Spike protein that was previously hidden.
The Spike protein is then able to undergo a series of dramatic conformational changes.
During the first stage, the Spike protein inserts itself into the cell membrane.
In the second stage, segments of the spike protein zipper back on itself,
forcing the membrane of the cell and viral membrane to fuse.
After fusion, the viral RNA is deposited into the host cell,
where it will direct the cell to produce more virions.
Once the nucleocapsid is inside the cell,
ribosomes start translating the polyprotein precursor of the non structural viral proteins.
It is hypothesized that the progression of the ribosomes
along the viral RNA results in the disassembly of the N proteins.
The precise timing of polyprotein processing, however, is unclear.
Soon after nsp3’s protease domain is translated, it is thought to start cleaving nsps 1, 2 and 3.
Nsps 3, 4 and 6 are inserted into the ER membrane through an unknown mechanism,
and nsp5 processes the remaining portion of the elongating polyprotein.
Ribosomal frameshifting is a key event during early translation.
It occurs at a slippery sequence located in the context of a pseudoknot structure,
just upstream of the first stop codon.
If a ribosome melts the pseudoknot quickly, it progresses without frameshifting,
and then disassembles at the first stop codon.
Nsp5 then cleaves the polyprotein precursor.
The pseudoknot refolds before it is encountered by a closely trailing ribosome.
This time, the pause induced from the pseudoknot results in a minus one frameshift,
allowing the ribosome to progress beyond the stop codon.
In this case, nsps 12 to 16 can be translated, and the polyprotein is processed by nsp5.
In parallel, the ER undergoes a striking but poorly understood remodeling event.
Nsps 3 and 4 interact to induce membrane pairing.
Nsp6, which is not shown here, is also somehow involved in this process
that promotes membrane curvature.
Nsps and the genomic RNA are trapped into double membrane vesicles, or DMVs,
that form through unclear mechanisms.
ER remodeling also leads to other structures of unknown function that are not depicted here.
To propagate itself, the virus must replicate its genome and express genes encoding structural proteins.
Both replication and transcription are carried out inside of DMVs
by a single protein complex, called the RTC.
Genes encoding structural proteins are located at the 3’ end of the genome,
which also encodes accessory proteins that are not depicted in this animation.
These genes are transcribed into a nested set of negative sub-genomic RNAs.
They are then copied into positive RNAs that serve as templates
for the translation of structural proteins.
All of the sub-genomic RNAs share a copy of the leader sequence
present at the 5’ end of the genomic RNA.
These RNAs can contain multiple open reading frames,
but only the one directly following the leader sequence will be translated.
So how does this leader, or L sequence, get added to the subgenomic RNAs?
This process involves a series of sequences called transcription regulatory sequences, or TRSs.
The TRSs are present at the junctions between each open reading frame
of genes encoding structural and accessory proteins,
as well as in the leader sequence at the 5’ end of the genomic RNA.
The core sequence of these TRSs are highly conserved,
and the leader TRS is thought to remain in close proximity to a body TRS for base pairing.
During transcription, when the RTC reaches a body TRS and copies its core sequence,
it can either continue or switch to the 5’ end of the genomic RNA,
where the copied TRS matches with the leader TRS, leading to continuous transcription.
The RTC consists of nsps, but the mechanisms of replication and transcription are not fully known.
The next segment describes two hypotheses specifically focusing on the first step of transcription,
during which negative RNAs are produced.
In DMVs, replication and transcription are carried out by the replication-transcription complex, or RTC.
The core structure of the RTC consists of nsps 7, 8 and 12.
They assemble at the 3’ end of a template genomic RNA and initiate transcription
with the help of nsps 10, 13, 14 and 16.
It is hypothesized that transcription pauses when the RTC reaches
transcription-regulating sequences, or TRSs, shown here in yellow.
Its helicase domain can then act on the double-stranded RNA,
causing RTC backtracking and unwinding of the double-stranded RNA.
The core sequence of the TRS is highly conserved.
Therefore, when the copied TRS at the 3’ end of a newly synthesized RNA
matches with the TRS in the leader sequence at the 5’ end of a template genomic RNA,
transcription elongation continues.
In this way, all of the newly synthesized negative RNAs
can obtain the leader sequence at their 3’ end.
In DMVs, replication and transcription are carried out by a replication-transcription complex, or RTC.
The core structure of RTC consists of nsps 7, 8 and 12.
It is hypothesized that the genomic RNA first needs to be replicated in full length.
Nsp13 binds to the positive RNA strand in transcription regulatory sequences, or TRSs,
in order to keep an open bubble.
Meanwhile, the RTC assembles at the 3’ end of the positive genomic RNA
and initiates transcription with the help of nsps 10, 14 and 16.
When the RTC reaches a TRS, it pauses and disassociates from the template RNA.
Then the RTC is recruited by the leader TRS at the 5’ end of the positive genomic RNA.
The core sequence of the TRS is highly conserved.
Therefore, when the copied TRS at the 3’ end of a newly synthesized RNA
matches with the leader TRS, transcription elongation continues.
In this way, all the newly synthesized negative RNAs can obtain the leader sequence at their 3’ end.
Over the course of hours, the cell has transformed into a viral factory,
and will soon release newly formed viruses.
At the DMVs, numerous copies of genomic and sub-genomic positive RNAs have been produced.
RNAs are thought to be released into the cytosol through pores in the DMV membrane.
The viral genomic RNA interacts with nucleocapsid, or N proteins, which act to compact the RNA.
Meanwhile, structural viral proteins, including matrix, envelope, and spike proteins
have been translated by ribosomes at the ER,
and transported to the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment, or ERGIC.
At the ERGIC membrane, the RNA and N-proteins bud inward
with the help of matrix and envelope proteins.
New viruses are then thought to be transported between different membrane compartments,
including lysosomes and the multivesicular bodies, or MVB.
Fusion of the MVB with the plasma membrane releases the newly formed viruses
to the extracellular space, where they are able to attach to and infect new cells.